---
layout: page
permalink: /quiz/index.html
title: Infinite Quiz Machine
tags: [about, Chris, Paxton, Chris Paxton, quiz, infinite quiz machine, LLMs]
categories: [quiz]
chart: true
---

This is the home of the Infinite Quiz Machine!

## Quizes 

  - [What crustaceann are you?](/quiz/what-kind-ofcrustacean-are-you/index.html)
  - [What kind of sandwich are you?](/quiz/what-kind-of-sandwich-are-you/index.html)
  - [What kind of worm are you?](/quiz/what-kind-of-worm-are-you/index.html)
  - [What kind of tooth are you?](/quiz/what-kind-of-tooth-are-you/index.html)
  - [What holiday are you?](/quiz/what-holiday-are-you/index.html)
  - [What kind of door are you?](/quiz/what-kind-of-door-are-you/index.html)
  - [What extremely specific door are you?](/quiz/what-extremely-specific-door-are-you/index.html)

### Halloween Quizes
  - [What halloween creature are you?](/quiz/what-halloween-creature-are-you/index.html)
  - [Which day in October are you?](/quiz/which-day-in-october-are-you/index.html)
  - [Which kind of undead monstrosity will you be?](/quiz/which-kind-of-undead-monstrosity-will-you-be/index.html)
  - [To which of the elder gods should you pray?](/quiz/to-which-of-the-elder-gods-should-you-pray/index.html)
  - [Which cosmic horror are you devoted to?](/quiz/which-cosmic-horror-are-you-devoted-to/index.html)

## Ok, but what is it?

This is the Infinite Quiz Machine, a project by me, [Chris Paxton](/about/index.html).

The quizzes are generated by AI, using [Virgil](https://github.com/cpaxton/virgil), my library for exploring AI-based storytelling.

Specifically, I used [Gemma 2b](https://huggingface.co/google/gemma-2b/tree/main) to generate the text and image prompts, and illustrated the questions and results with [Diffusers](https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/en/index).

## But why?

If you're an internet dweller of a certain age, you remember constant, bizarre Buzzfeed quizzes that never quite made sense but appeared all over Facebook, Instagram, whatever. A friend of mine was bringing it back, so to speak -- sharing similar weird quizzes on Discord -- and it made me think that this was the sort of thing AI could do really well, in a way that would be surprising, fun, and a little bit uncanny.

So, we come to AI. The term "slop" is thrown around a lot for AI these days, and [the role of AI in the arts](https://itcanthink.substack.com/p/off-topic-what-role-for-ai-in-the) is something that I have thought about a lot. I think it *does* have a roll, and while I don't consider the quizes generated by the Infinite Quiz Machine to be "art" per se, I do think the Machine itself sort of is.

The quizzes are all a bit weird -- something that comes very naturally to a large language model that's being fed its own inputs over and over again. They're not what *people* might make, and that's what makes the Machine so fun; its outputs are like quizzes made by an alien who just barely understands human language and culture.

I think it's extremely fun and have gotten a ton of enjoyment out of running through endless, bizarre, horribly illustrated personality tests -- that somehow still make sense a lot of the time!

I hope you enjoy them too. If you have any feedback, or want to see more, please let me know! You can reach me on [Twitter/X](https://twitter.com/chris_j_paxton) or [Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/cpaxton.bsky.social).
